---
layout:       post
title:        >
    Ubuntu 18.10 external monitor with intel graphics
site:         Ask Ubuntu
stack_url:    https://askubuntu.com/q/1102592
type:         Answer
tags:         drivers nvidia graphics multiple-monitors nvidia-optimus
created_date: 2018-12-17 16:31:56
edit_date:    2020-06-12 14:37:07
votes:        "9 "
favorites:    
views:        "4,963 "
accepted:     Accepted
uploaded:     2022-02-22 04:32:56
git_md_url:   https://github.com/pippim/pippim.github.io/blob/main/_posts/2018/2018-12-17-Ubuntu-18.10-external-monitor-with-intel-graphics.md
toc:          false
navigation:   false
clipboard:    false
---

### The short version:

Your laptop's HDMI port is wirred to the nVidia card in Hardware.  No software solution can change this, you need to resort to a mini-DP --> HDMI hardware convertor to make this work.


## TL;DR:
From: [Aero 15X v8 annoyances][1]:

> Second issue has to do with Nvidia optimus and essentially requires me  
> to relog or restart the pc when I disconnect from an external display  
> to keep the battery from draining running on the gtx 1070. Assuming I  
> boot the PC without any external displays connected, non-game  
> applications will utilize the onboard gpu as expected. If I boot the  
> PC with an external display connected however, everything (web  
> browsers, even windows shell) will use the dedicated gtx 1070. This  
> also applies to any applications started when connecting an external  
> monitor after booting. None of the applications will switch to the  
> integrated gpu after disconnecting the monitor and nothing short of a  
> relog/restart will solve the issue.  
>   
> I've tried forcing global settings in Nvidia control panel to the  
> integrated gpu, updated all drivers but all to no avail.  
>   
> Any advice would be greatly appreciated.  

In the answers section this is discovered:

> This is not the case with the Aero 15 however. It seems that the  
> display outputs are wired to the GTX 1070 which forces all  
> applications that were started on any display connected to the  
> HDMI/mDP port to be rendered with the GTX 1070.  
>   
> I tested this by having the laptop's screen enabled while connected  
> via mDP to an external monitor. If the built-in screen is set as  
> primary, applications launched will run on the iGPU. When the external  
> monitor is set as primary, all applications started will run on the  
> 1070.  

**Note:** My Alienware AW17R3 has the external HDMI port hardwired to the nVidia Geforce GTX970M GPU as well and I cannot use the Intel iGPU to drive the Laptops HDMI external port. The Intel iGPU will only drive the builtin display and Thunderbolt 3 USB-C port which has a DPI-->HDMI adapter ($25) to another external monitor.

  [1]: https://www.reddit.com/r/gigabytegaming/comments/90jze6/aero_15x_v8_annoyances/
